As of today, it's been over 2,65
days since ASAP Rocky's released an
album, despite promising fans for years
that a new one was coming soon.
Get an album. Come on,
man. Don't do me like that, dog. ASAP.
Listen, don't make me do that right now,
man.
And year after year, Rocky has continued
to hype up this album, claim it's the
greatest he's ever worked on, but then
provide another excuse why it hasn't
come out. Most of the songs that I
usually performing and like that mother
leak it and once it's leak it's just
like nah it's not on the project.
Fans have gone from excited to confused
to frustrated and most worrying of all
it looks as if they no longer care.
Rocky's latest song pray for the gang
did not make the top 200 on Apple Music
despite being an exclusive release on
there and the music video was later set
to private after several hours. And when
you look at just how long fans have been
left waiting, you can see exactly why
they've given up and how this serves as
a cautionary tale to never take your
fans for granted.
ASAP Rocky released his most recent
album Testing on May 25th, 2018. At the
time, Mac Miller and XXXTentacion were
still alive and nobody had heard of CO
19. But since then, multiple things have
happened in Rocky's life that have
distracted him from making a follow-up
album. In 2019, he was arrested in
Sweden and spent a month in jail and had
to cancel his European tour dates. Later
that year, Rocky was first spotted
dating Rihanna, which would soon blossom
into a long-term family relationship.
But in May of 2021, Rocky informed GQ
magazine that he was working on a new
album, which was tentatively named All
Smiles. He said that he was disappointed
that the experimental approach of
testing wasn't that wellreceived, but
decided that he was going to double down
on this approach. He said, "If I'm still
doing the same is with the same sounds
and the same bars and the same visuals
from years ago, what's the point? You
got that catalog. You can go revisit
that." As many people have guessed, he
confirmed that he was working on music
with Rihanna. He was also working with
Maurici, who is the former lead singer
of the Smiths. Rocky described this
album as a ghetto love tale, which
reflected his new life in a long-term
and committed relationship. And rather
damningly for Rocky, this article from
GQ in 2021 revealed that this album was
close to completion. Halfway through the
article, it reads, "When Rocky decides
to drop the album, which he estimates is
about 90% complete when we speak, it
could usher in a radical new phase in
his life, Rocky the Romantic. But in
November of 2021, we probably have one
of the biggest factors behind Rocky not
releasing this album." By this stage,
ASAP Rocky had pretty much outgrown the
entire ASAP hiphop collective. His
relationships with the other members had
deteriorated and on November 6th, 2021,
Rocky had an argument with ASAP Reelli.
It was alleged that Rocky fired a gun at
Rei. And although Rei was not severely
harmed, Rocky now faced felony charges
of assault. Ultimately, this meant that
he could potentially face years behind
bars. But given that All Smiles was 90%
complete, Rocky fans were convinced that
2022 would be the year that we finally
got a new Rocky album. And it's quite
shocking that three years ago, Rocky
acted like this album was more or less
good to go.
In the spring of 2022, ASAP released a
track called The God Hour with ASAP Ant
and the song DMB, which stood for That's
My Bee. These songs were received pretty
well, and one article in Pitchfork was
jokingly headlined, "It's a miracle."
ASAP Rocky released two decent songs in
a row. Seven days after DMB was
released, Rocky and Rihanna would become
parents and named their child Rizza
after the iconic leader of the Wuang
Clan. Later that month, Rocky did an
interview with Days and promised that
the album was coming soon. It reads, "In
the four years since his last LP, Rocky
has fitted in and out of studios and
Zoom calls to wrap up an album he swears
will be out soon." The interviewer
asked, "What can you tell us about your
upcoming album, All Smiles?" And Rocky's
response was, "One thing I can tell you
is that the name isn't going to be All
Smiles. You know, I never publicly said
that my album was called All Smiles.
That one is more of a concept project.
It's music and more. I'm wrapping up the
new album now. I've been shooting so
many visuals for it. I don't want to be
cliche or sound like a salesman, but
I've pushed myself to the limit on
everything. Going from that industrial
subversive sound from the 2018 album,
Testing, and then graduating with a more
polished sound. I just like where it is.
In September, Rocky's performance at
Rolling Loud New York was advertised as
his last show until the album. On
September 25th, Rocky would go on to
perform an underwhelming nine songs at
this concert. This could hint at the
fact that Rocky was burnt out or
exhausted, but nonetheless, he did not
mention any changes to the upcoming
release. Rocky's next concert was on
December 8th, and he was scheduled to
perform at 2 Chain's Amazon Music Live
concert series. Six days earlier on
December 2nd, Rocky released a song Me,
which suggested that this was a single
coming up on the album. However, this
track also appeared on the soundtrack
for the video game Need for Speed
Unbound. 3 days later, Rocky did an
interview with Complex and claimed that
he was still wrapping things up. The
interviewer asked, "Me is the lead
single for a Need for Speed Unbound, but
could this also be a leadup to your
album? In May, you said you were
wrapping up. What stages are you in
now?" Rocky answered, "Yes, we're still
wrapping the album up now. Like I told
everybody last time, the Rolling Loud
performance was my last performance
until the album was wrapped. And now
it's about time that we start dropping
songs and getting prepared for the roll
out. There's a lot in store and I'm
excited about everything without giving
out too many surprises. It's some cool
stuff in store. And it's not a situation
where they're going to have to wait
long. It's like ASAP, no pun intended."
But this answer doesn't really give away
much. And Rocky still maintained that
this album was coming out before his
next concert. On December 8th, Rocky
appeared on an advertisement during
Thursday Night Football promoting the
Amazon show and unveiled the name of the
album. He said, "Today Night Football,
Amazon, first time back on stage, album
finished. Don't be dumb. Let's go." But
the concert came and went with no new
album to be seen. Rocky debuted a few
songs for this concert, but still left
his fans feeling shortchanged. To make
matters worse, this lack of an album
launch also coincided with Rocky
launching his own furniture design
studio, Homemade. And by 2023, a lot of
the more casual Rocky fans would have
zoned out. And as the year unfolded, his
more loyal fans would not be rewarded
for their patience.
In January of 2023, Rocky released the
song Same Problems, which showed Rocky
taking on a more socially conscious and
introspective style. The track was also
a continuation of the alternative sound
he was going for and featured artists
like Tyler the Creator, Lil Yachty, and
Thundercat. To promote the song, Rocky
did an interview with Zayn Low and the
topic of a new album was brushed once
again. Here he explained the meaning of
the title, don't be dumb. The
last album was just go dumb, dummy, go
dummy. And now it's just like kids don't
be dumb.
And he explained that the album was
coming soon.
Absolute is is coming. It's finished and
we just putting the finishing touches on
it. It's coming for show.
Two months passed by and no album was
released. Rocky did yet another
interview with GQ where the interviewer
cautiously asked, "Can you say anything
about the new album, Don't Be Dumb? Is
it still coming out this year?" Rocky's
response, "I don't want to say too much
about it because I want it to speak for
itself. Maybe later on today I'll play
you some stuff and vibe out. But for the
most part, that is lit. It's fire. I'm
just figuring out the kinks, but it's
fire, man. Rocky would release new music
in July with the song Riot Rowdy Piping.
He also directed a commercial for Dr.
Dre's Beats. To promote this commercial,
Rocky did another interview with
Complex. In this interview, Rocky
revealed the impressive list of
production credits on Don't Be Dumb,
which included Tyler the Creator, Mad
Lib, Hit Boy, Boy, Alchemist, Metro
Booming, Mike Dean, and Swedish House
Mafia. He also confirmed that there was
a Rihanna collab as well as a feature
from the Mexican star Peso Pluma. The
Complex interviewer complimented Rocky
on the hidden Easter eggs in this
commercial, such as the fact that there
was a hotel named Don't Be Dumb in the
video. Rocky responded, "I think it's
beautiful that you even notice how I
meticulously placed these things in the
commercial, but yeah, that's really it.
Just the don't be dumb hotel. That's an
Easter egg. And just the death of the
dummies is my new vibe." Then the
interviewer gently prided him on the
fact that this album has taken quite a
while. He asked, "You said you were
wrapping up the album in May of last
year and that you were still wrapping up
in December. Any status update?" And
instead of giving a usual throwaway
answer, Rocky actually gave a
substantial reason why it's taking so
long. He said, "They got to stop leaking
it. These dummies got to stop leaking.
Every time we have to go back to the
drawing board, but right now I think
it's in a place where we tightened it up
and we really can't make or break
anything right now. We in album mode.
It's time to start rolling out the
project. This is just a single for the
project. This is really happening.
Rocky's song with Playboy Cardi called
Our Destiny and his video Taylor Swift
got released without his permission. He
explained that if something leaks, he no
longer feels like releasing it
afterward. In September, Rocky did an
interview with Vogue and understandably
mentioned that parenting had consumed a
lot of his time and Rihanna had recently
given birth to their second child, Riot
Rose. He told Vogue, "There's not enough
hours on the clock now that I'm a dad. I
don't have all day to create, but it's
all in the pursuit of happiness." In
October, Rocky did another
fashionoriented interview with Dazed. He
was asked about the album and responded,
"I've been really experimenting as
usual, and what I like about this is it
feels like my best work yet." When asked
what fans can expect, Rocky resorted
back to his usual throwaway answers."
And responded, "I want to leave
expectations wide and open. I don't want
to tell you what to expect. I just want
people to experience it how they do
naturally." Then the interview quickly
went back to the more comfortable
territory of his relationship with
Rihanna and fashion. Any fans who had
hoped for the release of Don't Be Dumb
that year would be left disappointed.
And in the following year, a diss track
by Drake would address something that
Rocky fans were too afraid to admit.
ASAP Rocky was becoming irrelevant in
rap circles.
During the Kendrick and Drake beef, it
was speculated that Rocky was going to
tag himself in on his 2023 album for All
the Dogs. Drake seemed to make multiple
sneak disses at Rihanna and Rocky.
However, not everyone was convinced that
Rocky had what it took to battle Drake.
An article in the Fader wrote, "Look, I
like some of the recent ASAP Rocky
singles, but this isn't a fight he's
going to win." And in the song Family
Matters, Drake finally took a direct aim
at Rocky and wrapped, "I ain't even know
you rap still, cuz they only talking
about your fit again. Probably got to
have a kid again before you think of
dropping any ish again." And this verse
touched at the uncomfortable truth that
Rocky was now better known for fashion
and being with Rihanna. Two days later,
Rocky kind of proved Drake's point where
he appeared at a Puma event with
Rihanna. When someone asked him about
when his new album was coming out, he
once again gave the vague answer of very
soon. Bear in mind, an album was coming
soon two years ago in May of 2022. But
later that year, at long last, Don't Be
Dumb had an official release date. On
June 21st, Rocky launched his American
Sabotage Collection at Paris Fashion
Week. Unreleased tracks played while the
show took place, and the words Don't Be
Dumb were stamped across flags outside
the venue. And after the event, a
pre-sale link was released, announcing
that the album would be available on
August 30th. DJ Cast one was on Ebro in
the morning and claimed to have actually
heard the album. And he hinted that
Rocky had updated this album to talk
about Drake.
You're confirming that you heard this on
an ASAP Rocky's upcoming album.
Yeah, I heard I heard songs being
played. I heard
Slick Rwick.
Oh, the Ruler.
Yeah, that was amazing. The Ruler.
What? And then and then by the and I
also heard ASAP Rocky definitely
addressing a lot of the main topics that
are happening out there right now. As
part of the roll out, the song Hijack
was released on August 2nd. This
contained a surprising feature from
Jessica Pratt from the '90s electronic
group Portoris Head. But what made the
song gain a lot of attention were the
supposed shots fired back at Drake.
Rocky went for the obvious angle that
Drake was once in love with Rihanna.
However, Rocky doesn't really address
Drake's central point that he hasn't
released an album in years. And on ASAP
Rocky's Reddit page, many fans thought
that Hijack was a good song, but
couldn't live up to the expectations
being set. As part of the promotion for
Hijack, Rocky did another interview with
Zan Lo and once again complained about
songs leaking.
Most of the songs that I usually
performing and like that mother leaking
and once it's leak, it's just like nah,
it's not on the project.
Yeah. Because there's no context
anymore, right? It doesn't sit within a
body of work.
Yeah. It's just all that get leaked. And
so I might perform it here and there,
but it's just like, nah, it's leaked. It
is what it is. It's out already. It's
like a lot of these records couldn't
didn't make it because they got leaked
at some point.
And bear in mind, Rocky is almost
exclusively doing fashion interviews
where music isn't the priority or these
incredibly softball interviews with Zayn
Lo. He's not doing the Breakfast Club
and sitting across from Charlemagne or
anyone that might challenge him. But
ultimately, August 30th, 2024 was a date
that was better late than never.
However, nine days before Don't Be Dumb
was set to be released, Rocky pushed
back the release date to September 20th.
With sample clearance issues now added
to the list of excuses, he tweeted,
"Leaks and sample clearances are
disrupting the album. It's been 6 years
and I want to make the best album ever.
I'm sorry for the wait." The next day,
Rocky did an interview with Billboard
where he set the release date to some
stage in the fall. However, in the
middle of the feature, the article
casually stated he's only been working
on it for the past year. Rocky then went
on a somewhat pretentious rant about how
this new album is German expressionism
mixed with ghetto futurism. And while
Rocky fans have been dying to hear this
album for years, Rocky said that the
65-year-old Beetlejuice director Tim
Burton has got to listen to the album.
Rocky said, "I sat and I played the
album for Tim Burton and he was effing
with it heavy. He was rocking his head
and he's like, "Wow, I didn't know you
made that kind of music." In September,
Rocky appeared on the track Ruby Rosary
with J.Cole. And Rocky made some sneak
disses at Drake once again. And it was
quite damning that Rocky was still not
taking direct shots at Drake by now.
Later that month, Rocky did his now
annual interview with Dazed and was
asked their annual question of when this
album might be coming out. And diehard
Rocky fans reading this were probably
grinding their teeth when they heard him
say, "I think my fans can expect the
unexpected with me. I got a chance to
reassess the bit and do some finishing
touches before we actually put it out,
and I just wanted to release the music
and content in the meantime. So, that's
what we're in the process of right now.
That same month, Rocky did his annual
interview with Complex and asked the now
routine question of why his album hasn't
dropped yet. Rocky responded, "There
were different reasons why, mainly being
leaks and clearance stuff, but it gave
me more time to be creative and put some
finishing touches. I'm a perfectionist,
and I think sometimes that's my own
worst enemy. I like to keep revising and
editing, pushing things to the limit. I
want to explore every option and every
possibility. I want to assure that all
of my fans will be fulfilled when they
get this music. On November 3rd, a fan
posted a notice that he was being
refunded for a Don't Be Dumb vinyl that
he pre-ordered and captioned it, "We are
never getting this album." On December
10th, ASAP Mob released a statement
saying, "It's been rescheduled to early
2025. We will refund your order and
invite you to reorder when the album is
available. As a thank you for your
patience, please enjoy the attached
coupon for a gift upon release." This
announcement was met with scorn by fans
who said, "Not sure how it's going to
work out for him. Hype is dead and the
pot is no longer boiling. album has to
be pretty special for it to be worth it
in any regard. By now, Rocky's fans had
gotten severe fatigue from waiting on
this album. And with Rocky repeating the
same old tired script that the album was
coming soon, he would soon learn just
how few people were still paying
attention. But in early 2025, fans of
ASAP Rocky were delivered great news.
In the ASAP Rally trial, Rocky was found
not guilty and escaped potentially
facing years behind bars. And this was
Rocky's last chance to create some hype
from the album as he could have released
it off the back of beating this case.
Instead, he used this publicity to
announce that he had become the new
creative director for Ray-B bands. What
followed was the usual of Rocky doing
fashion interviews and deflecting any
questions about his album. In February
2025, close to 4 years after informing
GQ that the album was coming soon, he
told GQ that the album was coming soon.
However, he at least acknowledged that
his fans were getting impatient. I'm in
the mixing and mastering realm of it,
but I think quite frankly people are
tired of hearing about updates about the
album. They're just ready to get this
is. You know what I'm saying? I don't
think anybody wants to hear where I'm at
with it, how far it is along and all
that. They just want to hear some is
just to see where I'm at. And I promise
I got some new stuff in store. I'm
challenging myself. It's like anything I
approach it with a different tactic,
degree, or finesse. In March, he would
be asked about this album on camera and
we got this awkward response. You want
to be getting an album. Come on,
man. Don't do me like that, dog. ASAP.
Listen, don't make me do that right now,
man.
On May 5th, it was reported that Rihanna
was now pregnant with her third child.
The next day, Rocky was quoted in
Variety magazine congratulating himself
on the song Hijack and said, "I like to
do things that don't make sense." Nobody
would have thought to put Jessica Pratt
on that, but I think her voice is so
angelic. She literally let me write the
whole thing, and she just sung it
beautifully. She makes me want to be
like a secret songwriter. I should
probably get into writing folk songs.
She's sick. This effing album, it
represents who I am right now. It's just
I hope that it's digestible. In May,
another snippet would be played at the
Can Film Festival. In June, if you
dialed 1855 Get ASAP, you heard a new
snippet from the album. But in July, it
was revealed just how fatigued his fans
had become.
On July 4th, ASAP Rocky released a song,
Pray for the Gang, which was released
exclusively to Apple Music for the first
24 hours. Unlike Hijack, Ishimi, and
other singles, there are no news
articles hyped about the release of the
song. Even more worryingly, this did not
appear in the top 200 singles on the
platform it debuted on. By July 6th, the
video for this song was made private. In
other words, Rocky or someone from his
team tried to unpublish it from the
internet, unreleasing a song. And while
Rocky was so concerned about people not
liking his new experimental style or
putting out a track that had already
leaked, he's now created a situation
where people don't even care about his
new music despite it being great and not
being confident enough to leave it up.
And this is arguably the worst thing
that could have happened. The fashion
designer Ian Connor, who Rocky had
fallen out with, decided to kick him
while he was down and tweeted unreleased
his own ish. Followed by several
laughing emojis. He then tweeted, "He's
a babysitter, horrible artist, and even
trashier clothes maker." The reality is
that enough time has passed that people
no longer really care about the album.
This could end up like Dr. Dre's Detox
where it goes on for so long that it
never actually gets released. It could
end up like The Carter 5, where by the
time it comes out, it couldn't possibly
live up to all of the hype that it had
been given. The rock band Guns and Roses
went through something more extreme when
they promised their album Chinese
Democracy in 1994. And this didn't come
out until 2008 when they had become
irrelevant. And before it eventually got
released, other rock bands threatened to
release an album called Chinese
Democracy. And it would be pretty funny
if someone like Drake or any artist that
has beef with Rocky threatened to do
something similar. That being said, it
would be incredibly naive to assume that
this means that Rocky's music career has
fallen off. He still has 36 million
monthly listeners on Spotify. In 2025,
he played major festivals like Rolling
Loud, La Palooa, and Chicago, and is set
to play rockin scene in France. This
latest setback might just be the wakeup
call that he needs to release more music
and not continue to take his fans for
granted. Ultimately, ASAP Rocky still
remains one of the most influential
figures in modern hip hop. And perhaps
unwittingly, he's now influenced other
artists not to let their fans wait too
long. But when you look at the early
generation of the 2010s that came out in
his class, he's probably been the one to
release the least music. And taking a
seven-year break is something that even
a superstar like Kendrick Lamar has
never done between projects.